LA County fire 83 helicopter crashed
into a mountain we heard it and now I'm
looking at the plane I just heard a
helicopter go over me and went over my
head
clicking clouds and then they just I
heard a pop and it immediately stuck
right now on a special edition of
in-depth a tribute to Kobe Bryant I felt
like I was boring to play basketball a
look back at the NBA great from some of
those who knew him best
he had a [__] about him that I've never
seen my 18 year old Kobe Bryant played
every game like he didn't like anyone he
played against which I loved the Laker
legend taken too soon in a tragic
helicopter crash that killed his
daughter Gianna and seven others January
26 2020 leaving behind his wife Vanessa
and three daughters we go back to 2012
when Kobe sat down with us to talk about
his love of the game and the legacy he
wanted to leave behind yeah how would
you like your career to be looked back
on a tribute to one of the best ever
right here on in depth
[Music]
I used to watch Magic Johnson's bring
the ball up the court night there's a
vision myself you know in the hallways
at the house knocking down lamps and you
know creating all kinds of chaos in the
house and thinking about Magic Johnson
and it's just like it was just like a
dream come true
eight years old in the game how many
points did you score 63 how light
technically yeah how do you score well I
figured out that most kids that are
right-handed can't go left you know that
means I just sit on their right hand I
got like steel after steel after Stuart
I mean that's really how it happened I
just pressure the back cord and soon as
a kid started drilling the boy jump
right in his right hand and then he I
take your foam and lay it up take your
foam lay it up though it just window and
it was nothing they could do about it
you were pretty much certain from an
early age as a kid that you were gonna
be an NBA player mm-hmm
why did you feel so strongly about that
well I felt like I was born to play
basketball I mean it's I started playing
at the age of two and I never ever
stopped I just played all day every day
so it just seemed like the natural
progression of play name yet tell why
you were scolded at a summer camp once
for what you put on your application for
like well yeah well I wanted to be an
NBA player and the counselors you know
came and he said well you have to pick
something a little more realistic it's
realistic to me this is what I want to
do you know what I mean and he was like
not only one in whatever million you
know players make it to the NBA took a
look around you look at all these
players here you know everybody wants to
be in the NBA said well I am going to be
there you know and as I grew older I was
sent me you know what if I wasn't such a
stubborn kid that really would have
trust me yeah well do you recall the
first time you beat your father and
basketball yeah I remember it was a war
that
you know after I beat up I remember he
never played me again ever
that was it that was it he didn't want
me to kind of get him back for all the
years or he was kicking our butt in the
backyard how physical was that last yeah
it was extremely physical you know my
father he's always taught me that the
little tricks of the game like London I
mean like how to get away with a foul
here you know how to get a little extra
step here a little nudge here so but the
only way you know the waiters really
show me was to do it to me so I had a
lot of I had a lot of bruises man a
couple bloody lips oh really oh yeah
yeah yeah as a kid explained why you
would study bubblegum basketball cards
well because you know you could kind of
see the little intricacies of each move
where the players head is when you shoot
the basketball you kind of see all those
little details and why were you looking
for that because I was a nerd the 81
point game in the NBA 81 points in a
single game what sticks out for you from
that game probably the fact that I had
pepperoni pizza the night before the
game the day that I actually scored 81
was my grandfather's birthday
Brett passed away a few years before and
my grandmother who had never seen me
play in NBA just because her nerves
can't take it yeah flew out to
California and she came to Washington
play for the first time and the only
time and and that's just so happened to
be the night I scored 81 what was that
like for you with having your
grandmother the first and only time
sitting in the stands watching it was
really special for me and my grandmother
who has always been there for me when
she was playing his grandmother school
and I would play like eight games a day
in the summertime for different summer
leaves and stuff like that she played
boy you need to slow down you know
you're getting too tired you're
exhausted you know so for her to be
there at the Staples Center to watch me
play at this ultimate level after seeing
me play for so many years you know in
high school when summer league was
special when you're in the zone like
that
you know yeah it's funny it's it's it's
a strange feeling because you know
you're in a zone but you can't afford to
allow yourself to know you're in the
zone because once you do then you lose
it you know cuz being in that moment
it's all about being in that moment and
not letting anything else and into your
mind emotionally or psychologically you
just continue to go and go and go what's
different about it though I mean when
you're in the zone like that relative to
an average again oh it's just a sense of
calmness and focus and it's almost an
almost a sense of desperation where
nothing else matters nothing nothing
nothing no nobody talking to you fans
sitting over here not nothing is
relevant the only thing that's important
is the moment that you're in and it's
tough to find that space on a consistent
basis but you know it's I think that's
what makes sport so compelling nobody
makes any secret there just wasn't the
close relationship there that you might
like there's things that I wanted to do
with my career take like there is
another level that I was just incapable
of doing as long as we were playing
together
[Music]
the all-star game cope that was billed
as Kobe verse Mike basically yeah about
the part of that game that you really
recall I remember and being sick and so
you know I think he was sick during that
weekend I think you missed media day
because of it when I checked in the game
I'm gone I'm gone I'm standing next to
him and he calls mmm I remember going oh
they call it that way he just started
laughing he's probably looking at me
like this kid is crazy right yeah I've
got the best advice you've ever gotten
from him probably the best advice was to
be to be me to be me
you know he's faced a lot of criticism
as well throughout his career about him
shooting too much and being selfishness
than the other but he said don't change
who you are unchanging play your game
and everybody will adjust to that but
you have to be yourself
how did that resonate with you well it
kind of gave me the feeling that I was
on the right track you kind of started
kind of thinking through things a little
bit and then for him to say that was
like okay no you are you're doing the
right thing you got it right is there a
point in your career where you've really
have that doubt creep in the most or
when you started questioning if maybe
you should change how you're doing
something yeah I mean yeah quite often I
think is human nature I mean as a as a
young player coming up we just continue
to get swept and you know we just can't
seem to get over the hump a slight man
in my and my cost of my team the ability
to win a championship right you know I
do i what do I need to do against the
Celtics in 2008 I was like now I'm never
gonna win another championship maybe
everybody was right I can't win without
Shaq it was like this is my one
opportunity and I blew it and then it's
like well no you can't
you know maybe you go down one day but
today is not gonna be that day
the fact that we're not gonna be able
Joe get his Hall of Fame ceremony
we're not gonna be able to say hi I got
five you got four
the fact that we're not going to be able
to say if we would stay together we
could have got 10 go for the baby back
an emotional Shaquille O'Neal following
the helicopter crash that killed his
former teammate as well as one of Kobe
Bryant's daughters and seven others Kobe
and Shaq had their differences in eight
seasons together in Los Angeles but it
resulted in three Laker championships we
sat down with Shaq back in 2015 and he
knew Kobe was special from the very
beginning ya know ya know [__] about
him that I've never seen in an 18 year
old the Laurel was kind of either this
kids really cocky or he's he believes in
it and you saw his consistency of how he
did it so I knew one day that he's gonna
be whatever he sets out to be and I
realized that we were the same people
don't like criticism turn into
motivation and he was a guy that I know
that if I talk smack he gonna come on
try to score 50 and I think that's a big
myth you know people think he had to be
lovey-dovey didn't win championships and
I just felt sometimes you know his way I
knew as a fabrice players just felt know
sometimes that he didn't do it the right
way and I know he felt sometimes and I
didn't work hard or whatever whatever
but again in all work three out of four
we are we will be the most talked about
the most enigmatic the most
controversial duo the best one-two punch
in the history of the game and what we
did and what I created was the back and
forth and always we talked about you
guys obviously had a very very
successful working relationship I mean
three consecutive titles you know what
more could you ask for but I mean nobody
makes any secrets there just wasn't the
close relationship there that you might
like with teammates why do you think you
were unable to maintain that same
working relationship for longer this
just wasn't gonna have it's just not
it's not in the cards I mean I I wanted
there's things that I wanted to do with
my career and take my career to another
level
that I was just incapable of doing as
long as we were playing together and
which I was fine with doing until I
heard him say a few times there you know
Kobe's not gonna be as successful
without me and you know understand the
other and that kind of became the
chatter so now once that became a
chatter was oh no no especially for a
guy who's hyper oh yeah today yeah it
just just wasn't gonna work so no matter
what happened even if you had won that
championship just me being a free agent
there was just no way I had to accept
this challenge and I had to see what I
could do the challenges who you are as a
person you know they try to have to go
through something like that only
individually as a family what do you
recall from the first time you moved out
at home oh yes we've been it was like a
[Music]
five-time NBA champ Kobe Bryant's
relentless work ethic became the
cornerstone of the Mamba mentality but
Bryant only created the legendary
nickname Black Mamba as he dealt with
issues off the court in 2003 Bryant was
charged with sexual assault but the case
was dropped before ever going to trial
to what extent do you think having gone
through that it had a positive impact on
you and really made you better long term
well you know I think it's uh the the
challenge is who you are as a person you
know they tried to have to go through
something like that you know with only
individually but as a family it was
extremely difficult and you kind of had
to do some soul-searching and because
you're fighting numerous battles at the
same time
and it was just kind of trying to figure
your way through all of this mess and
the only thing that you can do is just
put one foot in front of the other and
just continue to move forward I mean
there's nothing else you can do it I
mean there's times it just seems like
days are just endless like these this is
never gonna end
it's this this feeling this dark time is
just never going to be over and I think
once you go through something like that
you can't help but be different you
can't help but have a better sense of
who you are
I mean with the court case that was
really the first time in your life where
you didn't have control over your fate
right what was that experience like well
you have to you have to give it up you
know you have to give it up you have to
release yourself and just kind of you
know let things be and I think that
helps you maturity a lot when you when
you try not to control the situation
this is not a basketball game where I
have you know a lot of control on the
outcome you really just got to let it go
and I think to do that you you you
instantly have to mature and to be able
to put yourself in that emotional space
where you can you can trust the trust
the process what do you think you
learned from the whole experience I mean
it's a lot that I've learned to that
experience and a lot of things
specifically that I went through doing
that process that I wish I could dive
into but it's just I think I as a as a
person it just really teaches you how to
how to let go and how to trust and and
not try to control everything but I
think that decreases your stress levels
tenfold when you're not worrying about
the next moment you're not worrying
about with this person and say you're
not worrying about what this outcome may
be study just kind of let go why do you
think you were able to still play
basketball so well during that that why
because I'm stubborn
you know it was like you know on these
days I'm not going to stop playing I'm
not just because you guys think I should
stop playing it's because you guys think
that I won't perform as well I'm gonna
show you and and truthfully it was it
was stress release for me because I've
been playing since I was two so this is
basketball has always been my escape
it's always been the place of refuge for
me so you know why should I take that
away now if anything the game is gonna
keep me sane keep me stable and help me
to be able to manage these various
situations yeah how would you like your
career to be looked back on how close
did you and Kobe become first two three
years were very close and I think he and
particularly my kids drove him around
Los Angeles and he didn't have a car and
he's 17 years old so it's pretty funny
to think a kid that we thought was the
number one pick I thought he's number
one pick in the draft and to watch watch
my kids driving him around I thought
this I thought this is pretty funny your
son and your wife when I asked each of
them what their favorite memories were
from your career both immediately said
the offseason in which you acquired Kobe
Bryant and Shaquille O'Neal how does
that rank for you well it would be like
I guess a poverty-stricken family wakes
up one morning and all of a sudden
overnight they become the wealthiest
couple in the world
Kobe Bryant would have worn another
uniform if not for Jerry West the former
Lakers vice president of basketball
operations traded up to get Bryant in
the 1996 NBA Draft and the rest is
history
a tearful West spoke with Good Morning
America following the fatal crash for me
this is a god-awful day I'm just
devastated
by this news and to watch him transform
his life and career from this iconic
player to have an enormous career in the
media business and to see him with his
young kids his young daughters the joy
that was in their eyes looking at their
father who I'll be stayed loved to the
attention he paid to them to his getting
involved in promoting promoting women's
basketball this was a man for all
seasons he was a more than an iconic
basketball player he was someone who
inspired millions of fans I feel better
than winning the championship to be
honest with you I swear I do this is
crazy
Bryant's post-playing career was off to
a successful start he won an Academy
Award for best animated short film in
2018 he co-founded a venture capital
fund made millions from his investment
in the sports drink and launched the
Kobe Bryant China fund which helps raise
money for education and sports for
children in China Kobe's legacy will
stand the test of time yeah how would
you like your career to be looked back
on I would love for people to look at in
my career and say that I maximize
everything that I possibly for every
ounce of talent that I had I got the
most out of it and you know if people
can say that about me then I'll be very
happy
just a respect factor manages I just
respect in everything that he's kind of
done and when it comes to basketball
he's put herself in position where
there's probably there's no one that can
be like him I first played against him
when he was like 19 years old when he
first came in a league and no but you
know he says like Michael Jordan he's do
it the first one there in the last one
move all the time his commitment and
persistence to be the best player at all
times by any means necessary
there's never lose mentality shows on
and off the court and I could learn a
lot from this guy and I want to be that
guy you know when he leaves I want him
to be able to say the white here like I
always see his little dogs on say hi I'm
uncle Chet and it was like I we know who
you are we can go to your outside as
long as the story is told forever
really a pleasure come on man
[Music]
you